.nh
.TH "PC" "1" "Dec 2025" "Pinecone CLI" "Pinecone CLI Manual"

.SH NAME
.PP
pc-auth - Authenticate and manage credentials for the Pinecone CLI


.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBpc auth [flags]\fP


.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Authenticate and manage credentials for the Pinecone CLI.

.PP
There are three ways to authenticate the CLI with Pinecone:
1. User login: pc login
Opens a browser for authentication. Provides full access to Admin API
(organizations, projects, API keys) and control/data plane operations.

.RS
.IP "  1." 5
Service account: pc auth configure --client-id "YOUR_CLIENT_ID" --client-secret "YOUR_CLIENT_SECRET"
Uses client credentials for authentication. Provides the same access
as user login. Service accounts are created in the Pinecone console.
.IP "  2." 5
API key: pc auth configure --api-key "YOUR_API_KEY"
Uses a project API key directly. Provides access to control/data plane
operations only, but no admin API access.

.RE

.PP
See: https://docs.pinecone.io/reference/cli/authentication


.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\fB-h\fP, \fB--help\fP[=false]
	help for auth


.SH OPTIONS INHERITED FROM PARENT COMMANDS
.PP
\fB-q\fP, \fB--quiet\fP[=false]
	suppress output

.PP
\fB--timeout\fP=1m0s
	timeout for commands, defaults to 60s (0 to disable)


.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
\fBpc(1)\fP, \fBpc-auth-clear(1)\fP, \fBpc-auth-configure(1)\fP, \fBpc-auth-local-keys(1)\fP, \fBpc-auth-login(1)\fP, \fBpc-auth-logout(1)\fP, \fBpc-auth-status(1)\fP, \fBpc-auth-whoami(1)\fP


.SH HISTORY
.PP
19-Dec-2025 Auto generated by spf13/cobra
