.nh
.TH "PC" "1" "Dec 2025" "Pinecone CLI" "Pinecone CLI Manual"

.SH NAME
.PP
pc-index-create - Create a new index with the specified configuration


.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBpc index create [flags]\fP


.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Create a new index with the specified configuration.

.PP
You can specify the measure of similarity, the dimension of vectors to be stored, and which cloud
provider to deploy with. You can also control whether the index is 'sparse' or 'dense',
and any integrated embedding configuration you'd like to use.

.PP
See: https://docs.pinecone.io/guides/index-data/create-an-index


.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\fB--byoc-environment\fP=""
	BYOC environment to use for the index

.PP
\fB-c\fP, \fB--cloud\fP=""
	Cloud provider where you would like to deploy your index

.PP
\fB--deletion-protection\fP=""
	Whether to enable deletion protection for the index. One of: enabled, disabled

.PP
\fB-d\fP, \fB--dimension\fP=0
	Dimension of the index to create

.PP
\fB--environment\fP=""
	Environment of the index to create

.PP
\fB--field-map\fP=[]
	Identifies the name of the text field from your document model that will be embedded

.PP
\fB-h\fP, \fB--help\fP[=false]
	help for create

.PP
\fB-j\fP, \fB--json\fP[=false]
	Output as JSON

.PP
\fB--metadata-config\fP=[]
	Metadata configuration to limit the fields that are indexed for search

.PP
\fB-m\fP, \fB--metric\fP="cosine"
	Metric to use. One of: cosine, euclidean, dotproduct

.PP
\fB--model\fP=""
	The name of the embedding model to use for the index

.PP
\fB-n\fP, \fB--name\fP=""
	Name of index to create

.PP
\fB--pod-type\fP=""
	Type of pod to use

.PP
\fB--read-mode\fP=""
	The read capacity mode to use. One of: ondemand, dedicated. Defaults to ondemand. If configuring dedicated, you must also provide read-node-type, read-shards, and read-replicas

.PP
\fB--read-node-type\fP=""
	The type of machines to use. Available options: b1 and t1. t1 includes increased processing power and memory

.PP
\fB--read-parameters\fP=[]
	The read parameters for the embedding model

.PP
\fB--read-replicas\fP=0
	The number of replicas to use. Replicas duplicate the compute resources and data of an index, allowing higher query throughput and availability

.PP
\fB--read-shards\fP=0
	The number of shards to use. Shards determine the storage capacity of an index, with each shard providing 250 GB of storage

.PP
\fB-r\fP, \fB--region\fP=""
	Cloud region where you would like to deploy your index

.PP
\fB--replicas\fP=1
	Replicas of the index to create

.PP
\fB--schema\fP=[]
	Schema for the behavior of Pinecone's internal metadata index. By default, all metadata is indexed; when schema is present, only the fields provided will be indexed

.PP
\fB--shards\fP=1
	Shards of the index to create

.PP
\fB--source-collection\fP=""
	When creating an index from a collection

.PP
\fB--tags\fP=[]
	Custom user tags to add to an index

.PP
\fB-v\fP, \fB--vector-type\fP=""
	Vector type to use. One of: dense, sparse

.PP
\fB--write-parameters\fP=[]
	The write parameters for the embedding model


.SH OPTIONS INHERITED FROM PARENT COMMANDS
.PP
\fB-q\fP, \fB--quiet\fP[=false]
	suppress output

.PP
\fB--timeout\fP=1m0s
	timeout for commands, defaults to 60s (0 to disable)


.SH EXAMPLE
.EX
  # create a serverless index
  $ pc index create --name "my-index" --dimension 1536 --metric "cosine" --cloud "aws" --region "us-east-1"

  # create a pod index
  $ pc index create --name "my-index" --dimension 1536 --metric "cosine" --environment "us-east-1-aws" --pod-type "p1.x1" --shards 2 --replicas 2

  # create an integrated index
  $ pc index create --name "my-index" --dimension 1536 --metric "cosine" --cloud "aws" --region "us-east-1" --model "multilingual-e5-large" --field-map "text=chunk_text"

.EE


.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
\fBpc-index(1)\fP


.SH HISTORY
.PP
19-Dec-2025 Auto generated by spf13/cobra
